---
layout: post
title: about SAX
date: 2009-10-27 18:54
comments: true
categories: []
---
<p><font style="FonT-FAMiLY: Arial">This is the official website
for SAX. It replaces David Megginson's original SAX
page.</font></p>
<p><font style="FonT-FAMiLY: Arial">SAX is the <em>Simple API for
XML</em>, originally a Java-only API. SAX was the first widely
adopted API for XML in Java, and is a “de facto” standard. The
current version is SAX 2.0.1, and there are versions for several
programming language environments other than Java.</font></p>
<p><font style="FonT-FAMiLY: Arial">SAX has recently switched over
to the SourceForge project infrastructure. The intent is to
continue the open development and maintainence process for SAX (no
NDAs required) while making it easier to track open SAX issues
outside of the high-volume <code>xml-dev</code> list. Project
resources include archived mailing lists and a download area. See
the Project Page link for full information about project facilities
which are being used, as well as news announcements. Use the
<em>sax-users@lists.sourceforge.net</em> mailing list to discuss
problems that come up when you're trying to use SAX.</font></p>
<p><font style="FonT-FAMiLY: Arial">David Megginson, who runs an
XML consulting company, has resumed maintaining SAX after a period
of excellent work by David Brownell (if you use SAX, you should
think about buying David Brownell's SAX2 book).</font></p>
<p><font style="FonT-FAMiLY: Arial"><em>27-April 2004:</em> SAX
2.0.2 (sax2 r3) is out. Download it by going to the Sourceforge
download area. That download includes full source, pre-generated
javadoc, and a JAR file you can install.</font></p>
<p><font style="FonT-FAMiLY: Arial"><em>29-January 2002:</em> SAX
2.0.1 (sax2 r2) is out! Download it by going to the Sourceforge
download area. That download includes full source, pre-generated
javadoc, and a JAR file you can install. Or, consult the javadoc
link at left. That's current, and includes the preliminary "SAX2
Extensions 1.1" APIs.</font></p>
<p><font style="FonT-FAMiLY: Arial"><em>12-November 2001:</em>
There are some SAX2 conformance tests available, using the JUNIT
testing framework. Download the "sax2unit" tests at the xmlconf
project. These are in addition to the SAX2-hosted XML conformance
tests mentioned on the "links" page, and address different
issues.</font></p>
