---
title: about SAX
author: mathewxiang
layout: post
permalink: /2009/10/about-sax/
categories:
  - 默认
---
<font style="FonT-FAMiLY: Arial">This is the official website<br /> for SAX. It replaces David Megginson’s original SAX<br /> page.</font>

<font style="FonT-FAMiLY: Arial">SAX is the <em>Simple API for<br /> XML</em>, originally a Java-only API. SAX was the first widely<br /> adopted API for XML in Java, and is a “de facto” standard. The<br /> current version is SAX 2.0.1, and there are versions for several<br /> programming language environments other than Java.</font>

<font style="FonT-FAMiLY: Arial">SAX has recently switched over<br /> to the SourceForge project infrastructure. The intent is to<br /> continue the open development and maintainence process for SAX (no<br /> NDAs required) while making it easier to track open SAX issues<br /> outside of the high-volume <code>xml-dev</code> list. Project<br /> resources include archived mailing lists and a download area. See<br /> the Project Page link for full information about project facilities<br /> which are being used, as well as news announcements. Use the<br /> <em>sax-users@lists.sourceforge.net</em> mailing list to discuss<br /> problems that come up when you’re trying to use SAX.</font>

<font style="FonT-FAMiLY: Arial">David Megginson, who runs an<br /> XML consulting company, has resumed maintaining SAX after a period<br /> of excellent work by David Brownell (if you use SAX, you should<br /> think about buying David Brownell’s SAX2 book).</font>

<font style="FonT-FAMiLY: Arial"><em>27-April 2004:</em> SAX<br /> 2.0.2 (sax2 r3) is out. Download it by going to the Sourceforge<br /> download area. That download includes full source, pre-generated<br /> javadoc, and a JAR file you can install.</font>

<font style="FonT-FAMiLY: Arial"><em>29-January 2002:</em> SAX<br /> 2.0.1 (sax2 r2) is out! Download it by going to the Sourceforge<br /> download area. That download includes full source, pre-generated<br /> javadoc, and a JAR file you can install. Or, consult the javadoc<br /> link at left. That’s current, and includes the preliminary “SAX2<br /> Extensions 1.1″ APIs.</font>

<font style="FonT-FAMiLY: Arial"><em>12-November 2001:</em><br /> There are some SAX2 conformance tests available, using the JUNIT<br /> testing framework. Download the “sax2unit” tests at the xmlconf<br /> project. These are in addition to the SAX2-hosted XML conformance<br /> tests mentioned on the “links” page, and address different<br /> issues.</font>